# Design by Contract (DbC) principle

The Design by Contract (DbC) principle is a design methodology that states that
a class should define a set of contracts that specify its responsibilities and
obligations. These contracts define the conditions that must be satisfied in
order for the class to function correctly, and they specify the behavior of the
class in different situations.

The DbC principle is based on the idea that defining contracts for your classes
can help to ensure that your code is correct and reliable. By defining contracts
for your classes, you can specify the conditions that must be satisfied in order
for the class to work correctly, and you can specify the behavior of the class
in different situations. This can help to identify potential problems or errors
in your code, and it can make it easier to understand and work with.

To follow the DbC principle in your software development, you should define
contracts for your classes that specify their responsibilities and obligations.
These contracts should define the conditions that must be satisfied in order for
the class to function correctly, and they should specify the behavior of the
class in different situations. By doing this, you can create classes that are
more reliable and easy to understand, and that will be easier to maintain and
modify over time.

One way to ensure that your classes follow the DbC principle is to use the
Design by Contract Principle Checklist. This checklist provides a set of
guidelines for defining contracts for your classes that specify their
responsibilities and obligations. By following these guidelines, you can create
classes that are more reliable and easy to understand, and that will be easier
to maintain and modify over time.
