# DRY Principle

The DRY principle is a design guideline that states that you should avoid
repeating the same code or data in multiple places in your program. The acronym
DRY stands for "Don't Repeat Yourself," and it emphasizes the importance of
avoiding duplication in your code.

The DRY principle is based on the idea that duplication in your code can lead to
a number of problems. For example, if you have the same code or data in multiple
places, you will need to update each instance of that code or data when you make
a change. This can be time-consuming and error-prone, and it can make it
difficult to maintain your code over time. Additionally, duplication can make
your code less readable and more difficult to understand, which can make it
harder to work with for other developers.

To follow the DRY principle in your software development, you should look for
ways to avoid duplication in your code. This means using functions, loops, or
other language features to make your code more modular and reusable. For
example, if you have a block of code that is used in multiple places, you can
move that code into a function, and then call that function whenever you need to
execute that code. This will reduce duplication and make your code easier to
maintain.

Another important aspect of the DRY principle is the idea of abstraction. By
using abstraction, you can create more general, reusable components that can be
used in multiple places in your code. For example, you might use an abstract
class or interface to define a common set of behavior or properties that can be
shared by multiple concrete classes. This can reduce duplication and make your
code more modular and maintainable.

In summary, the DRY principle is a design guideline that emphasizes the
importance of avoiding duplication in your code. By following the DRY principle,
you can create code that is more modular, maintainable, and reusable, and that
will be easier to work with over time.
