# WET Principle

The WET principle is a design guideline that is the opposite of the DRY
principle. While the DRY principle states that you should avoid repeating the
same code or data in multiple places in your program, the WET principle states
that you should duplicate code or data when it makes your program more flexible
or easier to maintain.

The acronym WET stands for "Write Everything Twice," and it emphasizes the
importance of making trade-offs between simplicity and flexibility in your code.
While the DRY principle is focused on reducing duplication and making your code
more modular, the WET principle recognizes that there may be times when
duplication is necessary in order to achieve other goals, such as increased
flexibility or maintainability.

To follow the WET principle in your software development, you should be willing
to duplicate code or data when it is necessary to achieve a specific goal. This
might mean duplicating a block of code in order to make it easier to modify or
maintain, or it might mean duplicating data in order to make it more accessible
or easier to use.

One common scenario where the WET principle might be applicable is when you are
working with a large or complex codebase. In these cases, it may be necessary to
duplicate some code or data in order to make your program more modular and
maintainable. For example, you might duplicate a piece of data in order to store
it in multiple, separate data structures, in order to make it more easily
accessible or searchable.

In summary, the WET principle is a design guideline that is the opposite of the
DRY principle. While the DRY principle emphasizes the importance of avoiding
duplication in your code, the WET principle recognizes that there may be times
when duplication is necessary in order to achieve specific goals, such as
increased flexibility or maintainability. By following the WET principle, you
can create code that is more flexible and adaptable, and that will be easier to
work with over time.
