# Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP)

The Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP) is a design guideline that states that
derived classes should be substitutable for their base classes. This means that
you should be able to use a derived class in place of a base class without
affecting the correctness of your program.

The LSP is based on the idea that inheritance is a powerful tool for creating
hierarchies of classes that share common behavior and properties. However, if
derived classes are not substitutable for their base classes, then the use of
inheritance can lead to problems, such as unexpected behavior or errors. For
example, if a derived class does not implement all of the behavior or properties
of its base class, then using that derived class in place of the base class may
cause your program to behave incorrectly.

To follow the LSP in your software development, you should design your classes
so that they are substitutable for their base classes. This means ensuring that
derived classes implement all of the behavior and properties of their base
classes, and that they do not introduce any new behavior or properties that
would make them incompatible with the base class. This can be achieved through
the use of abstract classes, interfaces, and other language features that allow
you to define the common behavior and properties of a base class, and to ensure
that derived classes conform to that behavior and those properties.

One way to ensure that your classes follow the LSP is to use the Liskov
Substitution Principle Checklist. This checklist provides a set of guidelines
for designing classes that are substitutable for their base classes. By
following these guidelines, you can create classes that are more flexible and
adaptable, and that will be easier to maintain and reuse over time.
