# Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP)

The Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP) is a design guideline that states that
high-level modules should not depend on low-level modules. Instead, both should
depend on abstractions. This means that you should avoid creating dependencies
between your classes or modules, and instead use abstractions, such as
interfaces or abstract classes, to define the common behavior and properties of
your classes.

The DIP is based on the idea that dependencies between classes or modules can
make your code more difficult to maintain and modify. This is because changes to
one class or module can affect other classes or modules that depend on it, which
can lead to unexpected behavior or errors. Additionally, dependencies can make
your code less flexible and more difficult to test and debug, as you may need to
change multiple classes or modules in order to make a single change.

To follow the DIP in your software development, you should design your classes
or modules so that they do not have any direct dependencies on each other.
Instead, you should use abstractions, such as interfaces or abstract classes, to
define the common behavior and properties of your classes, and to create
dependencies between those abstractions. By doing this, you can make your code
more flexible and adaptable, and you can make it easier to maintain and modify
over time.

One way to ensure that your classes or modules follow the DIP is to use the
Dependency Inversion Principle Checklist. This checklist provides a set of
guidelines for designing classes or modules that do not have any direct
dependencies on each other, and that use abstractions to define their common
behavior and properties. By following these guidelines, you can create code that
is more flexible and adaptable, and that will be easier to maintain and reuse
over time.
