# Design Patterns

> â€œGoal: Learn the patterns that are solutions to commonly solved problems and
> how to apply them at the class level.

Design patterns are a powerful tool for solving common problems in software
design. They represent general guidelines and best practices for designing
software applications that help developers to create high-quality, maintainable,
and scalable code.

In this chapter, we will explore a variety of design patterns, including both
classic patterns and modern patterns. We will learn how to recognize common
design problems, and how to apply the appropriate design pattern to solve those
problems. We will also discuss the trade-offs and limitations of each pattern,
and learn how to apply them in real-world software development projects.

There are many different types of design patterns in software development, but
the most commonly used ones are creational, structural, and behavioral patterns.
Creational patterns focus on object creation mechanisms, trying to create
objects in a manner suitable to the situation. Structural patterns focus on
object composition, creating relationships between objects to form larger
structures. Behavioral patterns focus on communication between objects, what
goes on between objects and how they operate together.

Throughout the chapter, we will use examples in Typescript to illustrate the
concepts and techniques discussed. However, the principles and ideas discussed
in this book are not language-specific, and can be applied to any programming
language.

Whether you are a seasoned programmer or a beginner, this chapter will provide
you with a valuable resource for improving your software design skills, and for
writing better, more maintainable code. So let's dive in, and start learning
about design patterns!
