# 1. Clean Code

> “Clean code is not written by following a set of rules. You don’t become a software craftsman by learning a list of heuristics. Professionalism and craftsmanship come from values that drive disciplines.” — Robert C. Martin

![clean code](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hcorta/software-design-essentials/master/public/images/clean-code.png)

Clean code is often considered the holy grail of software development, and the
very first step towards creating high-quality long-lasting software.

**But, what exactly is clean code?** Like almost everything in life, the concept
of clean code is subjective, and if you ask anyone what they think
constitutes clean code, you’ll probably get a different answer every time. _Is
it code that looks pretty? Is it code that is easy to refactor? Is it code that
has lots of comments? Is it code that follows some arbitrary set of rules or
best practices?_

Well, yes and no. While the whole software development industry generally agrees
that clean code is essential for creating high-quality, maintainable, and
efficient software, there is no consensus on what exactly constitutes clean
code. Different developers and organizations may have their own interpretations
of what clean code looks like, and may prioritize different aspects of code
quality depending on their specific needs and goals. Some may focus on code
readability and organization, while others may prioritize efficiency and
performance. Ultimately, the concept of clean code is subjective and can vary
depending on the context and perspective of the individual or team working on a
project.

In my opinion, writing clean code involves a combination of the following
elements:

- Having an empathetic and craftsmanship-oriented mindset that considers the
  needs of the reader.

- Following best practices and coding conventions.

- Having strong technical skills that allow you to propose high-quality
  solutions and avoid common code smells and anti-patterns.

We'll examine approaches for each of these throughout the book, but in this
chapter, let's focus specifically on the ideas behind a good coding standard.
They're going to help us elucidate any confusion we may have about what clean
code is and how to go about writing it.

## Why should I care?

There are several reasons why you should strive to write clean code. First and
foremost, clean code is easier to read and understand, which makes it easier for
other developers to work on and maintain. This can save a significant amount of
time and effort when working on large or long-term projects, as it reduces the
need for debugging and makes it easier to add new features or make changes.
Additionally, clean code is typically more efficient and performant, which can
improve the overall user experience of your software. Finally, writing clean
code can help you improve your skills as a developer, as it requires you to
think carefully about the design and organization of your code. Overall, clean
code is essential for creating high-quality, maintainable, and efficient
software.

## Conclusions

Let's be real: writing clean code is hard. It takes time, effort, and a lot of
practice. And even the most experienced developers struggle with it. It's easy
to feel like you're not good enough or that you'll never be able to write clean
code. But that's just not true. Anyone can learn to write clean code. It just
takes practice, persistence, and a willingness to learn from your mistakes.

In short, clean code is important. It makes your life as a developer easier and
it makes your code better. And while it's not always easy to write, it's worth
the effort. So let's get started!
